Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to speak about the range dot number format property.
So the number former property for the range object allows you to change the number for Mitt
of a cell using Excel VB eight.
And actually,
what the number for Mitt of a cell is is basically how the value in the cell looks.
OK,
so it does not change the value of a sell.
It just changes how it looks.
So,
for example,
here in the range cold my underscore table here I've put the value of 10 in all the cells
in the range.
I can actually give this,
for example,
a percentage number format.
Okay,
so click on this button here.
It's going to change the number format of the cell.
It's changed the 2% so it's now looking like 1000%.
It hasn't changed the value of the cell cause 1000% is still 10.
Okay,
cause 100% is a one.
So if you multiply that by 10 this give you 1000%.
So it actually has not changed the value of the cell.
The value off the cell is still 10.
However,
it just looks like 1000%.
Okay,
so to actually change the number format of a cell,
you can change one of these quick form.
It's available here in this list,
or you can actually highlight the cells and then right click,
click on form it sells.
Or alternatively,
you can actually press control and one on your keyboard.
And this will get you this same window here.
And as you can see here,
we've got different categories for number formats.
So we've gotten a number,
currency,
accounting date and time percentage fraction,
you know,
all kinds of number formers.
Let's say we're going to choose percentage,
and this is actually how you can apply here using the Excel environment so you can choose
one of these formats and press OK.
And there is also an option to use custom number formatting,
which is actually creating a custom format by yourself so you won't use one of these ready
made format.
You will create a custom number format by yourself.
And actually,
I've got a video posted on YouTube on my YouTube channel on custom number formatting eso,
how to create your own custom number format and one.
All these signs mean so what the pound sign means and what zero means and all that and a
question mark.
Okay,
so you can learn how to decipher these goes using that video,
I'd really recommend you check it out.
It's a 45 minute video.
It's a long video on.
I hope it would be useful for you.
It would be actually useful for any Excel user.
Okay,
anyways,
so to actually apply a custom number formatting in Excel,
you'd actually need to get the code for that number forming.
So the Cody's here in this type window,
and the code for the percentage number formatting that we've applied is this 0% code here,
So I'll just copy that,
and I'll press cancel here on my window.
I'll actually put it back to the general number format.
Okay,
so I'll just put it back to the default number format,
and I'll go back to my visual basic environment here,
And I've created a procedure cold number underscore format.
And in order to use the number format property,
you'd write the name of your range.
So range Molly underscore table dot number format equals,
and then you put your number for Mitt Between double quotes to here.
I've got my number format put between double quotes.
And if we run that you can see here the number format has been applied and you can apply
any number for men as long as you get its code.
I want to also show you a small detail here.
This a bit tricky.
Okay,
so if you apply a currency number for Mitt here,
so just apply this dollar currency number format and if you right click on it,
click on form,
It sells eggs.
Here.
Here is the number for Mitt applied.
I'll go to the custom tab here and you can see here that this number for Mitt actually
contains some double quotes,
as you can see here to double quotes having a small hyphen between them.
Okay,
so if you try to apply this number format using VB A I'll just copy here.
I'll press council here.
I'll go back to the general cause I wouldn't apply using Vehbi,
eh?
So go back to my visual basic environment.
And here if you copy and paste that between the double quotes and you try to run this code
you'll actually get in error.
Okay,
so why did we get an error here?
So press.
And here the reason for that is that we've got double quotes in the number format.
And when you have double quotes that you need to put between double quotes excel,
VB a will not recognize is that these are double course to be put between two double quotes
here.
So we need to put these double quotes between these two double quotes on the very right and
the very left.
So in order to make vb a recognized that these air actually double quotes because what V B
A would think is that actually,
this is the start of the double quotes here,
the one on the very left.
And then here you can see the first double quotes meets.
It will actually think that this is actually the end of the double quotes.
No,
actually,
double close to be put between double quotes.
I hope that you're getting what I mean.
Anyways,
you actually need to double the double quotes in the middle in order to make excel,
recognize that this is not the ending double quote.
This is not a closing double quote.
This is actually just double quotes,
you know,
in the middle.
And this is double quit in the middle.
And this is actually the closing double quote.
And this is your opening double quote.
So I hope you got the idea.
Now,
if you run that,
the micro will work just fine,
OK?
And of course,
you can actually get the number format of a certain cell using the number format property
here,
So I can just copy this and put that in a message box.
I can just calm and that line of code in order for it not to run.
And if you run that,
you actually get the number format in a message box or cases.
You know how you can obtain the number for Mitt of his search and sell using V B A if you
want to.
Okay.
So Ah,
that's it for the range dot number.
Former property.
Guys,
thank you very much watching this video and I'll see on the next one